And so kind of just over the next three
weeks, we're going to kind of talk
through a couple different things.
We're going to see really here.
We're going to walk through the
gospels, um, and see some different
songs or some different praises, um,
before, during and after Jesus's birth.
And I think it's going to be unique
because I've never seen, um, really, uh,
uh, texts kind of walk through this way.
So I'm, I'm excited to kind of walk
through that with you guys in this.
Um, but I do recognize this.
I know during the season.
Uh, for some of you,
it could be difficult.
Uh, one of those reasons it can be
difficult is this could be the first
season that you are dealing with, um, a
loss of a loved one, um, that you've not
been with during this Christmas season.
And that's gotta be difficult.
Um, I know for some of you,
it's also, um, you're dealing
with the stress of Christmas.
Um, if, if you're anything like
me is it seems like every week
you're doing something different.
If you're not buying.
You're planning parties.
If you're not planning parties, your
going to parties, you're having dinners.
You're hosting dinners.
You're traveling to go see family, right?
And so it's easy to get distracted
in this season of activity.
But my, my hope and prayer is that
during this Christmas series that we
walk through, the each one of us will
make Christ the focus of the season,
no matter what you're doing, right?
No matter if you're buying gifts
or if you're planning a party,
or if you're going to one, you
can still make Christ the center.
Because that is the reason why we have
this season to be able to celebrate.
And so I want to just start off that way.
I want to ask, what is your
favorite part of Christmas?
What is your favorite part of it?
Okay, give me like your top three.
If you have to everything.
Okay.
Laughing with family.
That's a good one.
Yeah.
Food.
Yes.
Waiting on that one a couple more.
What's your favorite?
The lights.
Yeah.
Presence.
Okay.
Brittany, we know you love it all.
Hashtag I love Christmas.
Everything about it.
Yes.
Anybody else?
What's your favorite part of Christmas?
Jesus.
Hey, there we go.
We got somebody that's yes.
You get an a in the class,
no matter what else you do.
Okay.
Um, yes, Jesus.
And so I, again, I think one of the
things that's so cool about Christmas
is that there's so many different
elements of it that we can enjoy.
Um, and, and I think that the
thing that happens at times though,
is we do get distracted by it.
So I would just say this as you think
through those things that you love about.
I want you to start thinking through
how you can filter that through
what Christ has done for us during
the season, because he's the reason
why we get to enjoy those things.
Why we get to enjoy food while we get
to, to enjoy laughter why we get to
enjoy friends and fellowship and all
these different things that we love is
because of what Christ has done for us.
And so before we jump into this text,
um, I want to just kind of give you
a little bit of the background and
the cool part is we're going to be in
Luke chapter one verses 46 through 55.
So I don't have to catch you up on much
because the chapter just started in Luke.
So Luke one, we're gonna start in first
46, but here's what's happened before.
This is an angel visited
Mary, the mother of Jesus.
And so this angel came, um, and
said, Hey, uh, Mary, and this is,
again, it sounds so simple, right?
Hey Mary.
So you're going to have a child.
I know you're not married.
Um, and it's going to be God's son, Jesus.
And she's like, I mean, I
don't know about you guys.
I'm pretty sure I'd be
saying the same thing.
Of course, I'm a guy, but you know, if I
was a girl non-married, I'd really okay.
I've really be saying that.
Right.
So, uh, yes, Lord, what do you thinking?
Uh, what are you doing?
And so obviously it's an
angel to speaking to her.
So she's kind of listening
to him to this angel.
She's kind of going back and forth
and here's a couple of verses
that really stick out to me.
So finally, after going back and
forth about how and why, um, this
is what the angel says to me, For
nothing will be impossible with God.
And that was the last
thing that Mary heard.
And that was in verse 37 of Luke one.
That was the last thing Mary
heard before she said this.
She says, I am the Lord's
servant said, Mary May be done
to me, according to your word.
And so at that moment, Mary had
faith, even though she didn't
have all the details, she
didn't have the whole backstory.
She had faith to go, okay, God,
you understand this way more than.
And I trust you, and this is
how it began Jesus coming to the
earth to save us from our sins.
And so here's what happens
right after Mary quickly leaves.
She, and she goes and visits her
relative Elizabeth, um, which I was also
pregnant with the child and her late age.
Um, does anybody know what
the name of that baby was?
That Elizabeth was pregnant
with John the Baptist?
Right.
So John, the Baptist, um, would become.
To talk about Jesus's coming.
Right?
Um, he was the person that
would say that he was coming.
And so it's interesting.
Whenever Elizabeth sees Mary, this
is what she says to Mary, because the
spirit of God revealed to Elizabeth
that Mary was carrying God's son.
And so she says this in verse
46, it says blessed is she who
has believed that the Lord would
fulfill what he has spoken to her.
And so now this is where we
catch up with Mary, right?
The angel comes.
And tells her that she's
going to carry God's son and
have God's son and raise him.
Then she sees Elizabeth and Elizabeth
tells her that she has blessed
because of her faith that God would
do what God would do through her.
And then Mary goes into this praise
because she's still taking in again.
I think you guys would be a lot like
me is you would be taking in all that
you just learned and all the things
that had just maybe been said to you.
And she begins to consider it and
she begins to praise God for it.
And so we're going read, um, now the
text here, so you guys can see this.
And so in verse 46, it says, and Mary
said my soul praises, the greatness
of the Lord and my spirit rejoices
in God, my savior, because he has
looked with me or looked with favor
on the humble condition of a servant.
And surely from now on all generations
will call me blessed because the
mighty one has done great things.
And his whole, and his name is holy.
His mercy is from generation to
generation on those who fear him.
He has done a mighty deed with his arm.
He has scattered the proud because
of the thoughts of their hearts.
He has toppled toppled, the mighty from
their Thrones and exalted the lowly.
And he has satisfied the hungry with
good things and sent the rich away empty.
He has helped his servant Israel
remembering his mercy to Abraham
and his descendants forever.
Just to see.
To our ancestors.
So let's dive into this.
I want to just kind of talk about
just the overview of really Mary song.
When we look at this or Mary's praise,
as you begin to study a little bit more
about this, we realized that in Mary's
praise that she wanted to magnify Christ.
And whenever I heard that,
I loved the idea of today.
We got to sing the song, right?
Magnify Christ.
And I started thinking through if
the theme of this is to magnify.
What is the word magnify means.
So you guys helped me out.
What is the word magnify?
You were talking about magnifier.
What's a magnifying
glasses purpose to expand.
Thanks for just, I just translate
it for you, but what else?
What's a couple of things that happen.
Whenever you look through a magnifying
glass, you can see the details, right?
It gets bigger, whatever you're
looking at, what happened?
What's that it's more clear.
What happens to everything else?
It seems smaller.
I think you guys know where
we're going with this, right?
If Christ is being magnified
by Mary in this right.
It's, it's teaching us to
focus in during the season.
It's teaching us to, to make him
big and everything else small.
Now those things are okay.
The season of Christmas and
the things we enjoy our.
But Christ be magnified because
he is the one that receives
the glory during the season.
And so that's just my hope, as we think
through this, that everything else
becomes less important, but Christ
becomes the most important thing.
And so, as we walk through these verses,
we're going to see that Mary gave
praise during the season of Christ's
birth because of what God did for her,
what God did for the people of Israel
and what God ultimately did forever.
And so let's just start walking
through that, in that order.
So the first thing we see
in these first three verses,
um, is what God did for Mary.
So we see Mary said in verse
46, it says my soul praises,
the greatness of the Lord.
So I asked myself this question,
why could Mary say my soul
praises, the greatness of the Lord?
And she answers it in verse 47.
She says this and my spirit rejoices
in God, my savior, because at
that moment, Mary recognize that.
The son of God that was living
inside of her, came to save her.
He was her savior.
And I thought that was important,
that, that she first recognized that
God sent Jesus to save her from her
sins to save her from a life without
obviously an eternal perspective and
so much in some, so, so much more.
And so as she was looking at this and I
love this idea, she not only calls God
her savior, it's more than her words.
It's her posture.
And you'll see that in verse 48, it says,
because he has looked with favor on the
humble condition of a servant humility.
Mary shows humility.
And we see this even with a couple of
the verses that we read earlier, where
she says there in verse 38, it says,
may it be done according to your word?
Um, I am the Lord's servant.
And so Mary's humble condition, right.
And God had chose her.
And I love that idea.
Is that not only did God save
her, he was her say his semi.
He was her savior, but God chose her
when he could have chosen anyone.
See, I think too many times when we think
about what God has done for us in this
season, we forget that God chose us.
He didn't have to, he didn't have to.
If you think about Mary Mary understood
that God chose her to be a part of a great
plan to bring salvation to the world.
And then we look a little bit further
and we see, um, well actually let me ask
this question, cause I think this is a
great question to ask when we think about
why God chose Mary, why do you think
God chose Mary over any other person?
Do you think there's any particular
reason why she was humble?
Why else do you think that God chose Mary?
She was a descendant of David.
So obviously he had previously in the
old Testament, talked about that he was
going to send Jesus through that lineage.
So that's true.
We see her childlike faith.
I think that you look
at two things, right?
That the humility and her face.
And we go well, did God know that
she was going to have that faith?
And I would believe so.
He knew who he was choosing
to, to raise up Jesus.
And I think about that and I think
it's important for us to think through
this is that God chooses those who
are humble and faithful to do the
work that he's called us to choose.
And so I'm just looking at,
Mary's an example of somebody
that I could follow after, right.
That she recognized to give praise to
God and only what for, for savings.
But for choosing her because she
recognized God didn't have to do that.
Um, but so we see that, that,
right, so that, that God saved
her, that she recognized who Jesus
was, um, that God could use her.
But here was the last thing that
I saw here in verses 48 and 49.
It says because he has looked
with her on favor, on her humble
condition of, of his servant.
Surely now from all generations
will call me blessed because the
mighty one has done great things.
And his name is holy.
And so God was mighty for her.
So God was mighty for, and I started
thinking about what does that mean
for God to be mighty for Mary?
So most of you may know
the story, are you not?
So if not, I'm just going
to kind of fill you in here.
At this point.
The only person that knew that Mary
was pregnant was Mary and Elizabeth.
She was getting ready to go back
to her family after she leaves
Elizabeth and she's getting ready to.
Basically be ridiculed.
So what happened?
You're not married.
How are you pregnant?
So now she's got to be bold in her faith.
She's got to be confident in what
God's done and what God's promised.
And so God was going to be mighty for
her, but then she was going to not
only have this baby, but then she was
going to have to raise Jesus, which
here's what we know Jesus was perfect.
Right.
So she, I wish we had some
Jesus children in our family.
Um, but they probably wished that
they had some Jesus parents too.
So, um, What I would still say with
this as is she was reminding herself
that God not only saved her and
chose her, but he would be mighty
for her through the whole process.
See, I think Mary had a great reason to
give praise during the season of Christ
being born the first season of it.
Right.
She had a great reason
to give Christ praise.
So some of the, some
parts of Christian faith.
And I started thinking through this,
some, some parts really place Mary in a
high place, almost co-equals with Jesus.
And as I begin to think through that,
if you want to know proof, whether
Mary should be equal with Jesus or
even right under Jesus won, when
it comes to celebrating her, the
truth is Mary gave us that answer.
She said, no, I'm a humble servant.
It's not about me, but
it's Christ be magnified.
And so she even.
Jesus above herself.
And so, yes.
Should we celebrate Mary's faith?
Absolutely.
As we should celebrate one another's
faith, but we should not place Mary above
anyone or above Christ at all in this.
And so she knew, um, to
give God praise in this.
And so I thought it was amazing to
think through this before we continue
on Mason to think through this, what God
has done for everyone started with me.
See God has provided salvation for us.
God has chosen us to do great
and mighty things, and he will
be mighty and strong through that
process of being a follower of him.
And so it started with Mary.
And so this is why Mary began to praise
God was what God had had done for her,
but I love how she didn't stop there.
You know, I think it's easy when God does
something for us to praise God for it.
And thank God for it.
Only about my, what God's done for me.
And we forget about the rest, but Mary
didn't and I love how Mary didn't do that.
And I'm gonna kinda jump a little
bit ahead in the morning, kind of
come back and address the second
part or the third part here.
Um, but we're going to jump to verses
54 and 55 where Mary praise God for what
he has done for the people of Israel.
And so this is in 54 and 55.
And so it says he has,
this is what God has done.
He has helped his servant
Israel remembering his mercy.
To Abraham and his descendants forever,
just as he spoke to our ancestors, see
Mary had family and she had this family
that they would call the people of Israel.
Right.
And so if you go to the old Testament and
this is where, if you love history at all,
you need to go read the old Testament.
I used to hate it.
Being honest.
I used to hate the old Testament.
I thought it was boring.
Um, the more I started reading, I
realized that the Bible came to life
when I understood the old Testament.
And so God had stopped.
This group of people that he
would call his people, uh, the
people of Israel through Abraham.
And so this is where, where Mary's
recognizing God had a plan from
the moment that he saved Abraham.
He says, I will give you someone who
will one day save you from your sins.
I will use, um, to, to save
the world from their sins.
And so.
Um, had, had done that through sending
Jesus and Mary recognized this,
right, as she's looking at this,
it says that she recognized that he
remembered his mercy to Abraham all
the way back to Abraham God remembered.
And so it's finally coming true.
Mary's recognizing this as, as
she's thinking through what God's
done for her, Mary's recognizing
that God has came through for all
of her people, all of her people.
So she starts praising God for this.
But if you think a little bit more into
this as is, is as the salvation came to
her people, she gave praise for them.
I want to ask this question
when God blesses you.
And so let's just think
through a couple of different
scenarios when God blesses you.
If he provides financially for you,
if he's blessed you with life, if
he's blessed you with salvation,
do you believe that God's given
you that blessing just for you?
Absolutely.
You look at what Mary's
example, Mary understood.
Absolutely not.
No, God has given this to my people
and I'm going to give him praise.
And so whenever we receive a blessing.
It's not only meant for us.
And I always think about this as, so,
so you're saying if I get a hundred
dollars, that a hundred dollars,
not just for me, I need to go.
So give some of her way.
I'm not necessarily saying that,
but what I am saying is when God
provides for you, this is what
I love about Mary's testimony.
At the very least you should be
sharing that testimony with others.
So when God provides, when God heals,
when God gives wisdom or comfort
or peace or salvation or hope it's
worth, uh, sharing that with others.
They're saying, Hey, God
has done this for me.
And so Mary recognized, God had done
that for somebody else, not just for her.
And so she began to get praise
and that praise was recorded.
Right.
So as we think about this, we're been,
you know, we think about this hope that
Mary was given was also given to us.
Right.
And so it's meant to give to us.
I started thinking even just as a church,
why do we talk about giving, serving
and living your life out for Christ?
It's because we've recognized that nothing
that we do is only for us as a church.
It's for our community.
It's for our city, it's for our neighbors
as for our friends, it's for the world.
And so we want to do everything we can
to, as God provides stories, a blessing.
And, and providing hope and peace and
comfort that we give praise to God for it.
And we get praise to God that he
gave it to us to give it to others.
Amen.
So this season reminds us of that,
and this is what Mary's praise
reminds us of that, that she
recognized that it was for her people.
And so that mentality that she
has should be that mentality for.
So I want to take one step further.
The hope that we've received.
I want to be specific about this.
The hope that we've received is not just
meant for us, it's meant for everyone.
So if the hope that we receive
from Christ is meant for everyone.
And this season of Christmas is one of
the greatest seasons to invite people
to church, because most people actually
love coming to church during Christmas.
What should you go do today?
When you leave?
What should you do on Monday?
When you go to work, when you talk
to a neighbor or you go to your
kid's activity, what should you do?
Somebody told me,
tell him about Jesus.
Invite him to church, invite
him to experience that hope.
Tell them about what God's been
doing in your life recently.
And if you don't have something to
tell them, then what you can tell them.
As Mary said, Because so many
times, I think we're wonder
what God's done for us lately.
And I'll just tell you, God's done
way more than sometimes we recognize,
but if you struggle to figure out
what has God done for me, he's he's,
uh, you can take Mary's story and
say, Hey God provided for Mary.
If he was mighty for Mary, he was
one who chose her and saved her.
And he's given that to each one of us.
So again, as we look at these
verses, Mary's reason to give
praise and the season of Christ.
Was not only to give praise for what God
did for her or for the people of Israel,
but there's a bigger story that she
even speaks to, to give God praise for.
And that's what God did for everyone.
And we see this starting in verse 50,
it says his mercy is from generation
to generation on those who fear him.
And so that means that generation and
generation is continuing on and on and on
and on mercy is not giving us what we did.
And so, so did V just a little bit
specific and talk just in a little bit
more in detail in this at the moment
that this world was created and God
created Adam and Eve, there was a
perfect relationship with God, right?
There was a perfect relationship with God.
But lot of times the question always is,
is so why was the relationship broken?
You know, why didn't God create a man?
That would be perfect.
Well, if God would create a man to
be perfect, and that moment, that
person has no control over their life.
They're only controlled by
basically as like a robot.
That's what.
So because God gave us the freedom
of choosing him and choosing life,
they chose wrong, marry or not
marry Adam and Eve chose wrong.
And so they send, and so at that moment,
their relationship was broken, but God
had a plan to send his son Jesus, to
bring that relationship back together.
And so what is mercy?
Mercy is not giving you what
you deserve, which is this.
God could have said, you say.
No matter what happens from generation
to generation, you are doomed.
You will never have a
relationship with me.
You'll live apart from me in eternity,
apart from me and hell, but he didn't,
he said, I want to give mercy, which
has not given you what you deserve.
And I want to give you grace, which has
given you something you don't deserve
as well, which is a relationship.
And there's so much more to that
that I want to talk about, but
just in thinking through this, God
has done this for everyone, right?
And so we're going to read
verses 51 through 53 as well.
So it says he has done a
mighty deed with his arm.
He has scattered the proud because
of the thoughts of their hearts.
He has toppled the mighty from
their Thrones and exalted lowly.
He has satisfied the hungry with good
things, and he sent the rich away empty.
So as we think through this,
he says, he's given mercy.
To generation to generation.
What's the key word to receive that mercy.
It says in verse 50, what's
the key word to receive mercy.
So all those who fear him.
So if you're anything like me and
you've studied the Bible and you
see this where it says, you know, I
think it's in, uh, Proverbs nine, 10.
It says the fear of the Lord
is the beginning of wisdom.
I started going this.
Okay.
So I have to figure.
So what does fear of the Lord mean?
Somebody help me out here.
What does fear of the Lord mean?
Recognizing this wholeness?
Okay.
Reverence.
Yeah.
Anybody else want to add to that?
Hmm.
Respecting him.
Yeah.
For who he is.
So when we look at it, you know, there's
a couple of different directions.
And so I went and looked
in the dictionary, right?
So defines the dictionary, defines fear
as an unpleasant, often strong emotion
caused by anticipation or awareness of
danger, anxious, concern, unpleasant harm,
but it also notes that it means profound
reverence and awe, especially towards God.
And so I think about this, it's
important for children to have
a healthy fear of their parents.
Not a fear as though they're
cowering down, but a fear of
their authority in their lives.
Because as we know as parents,
or maybe as adults, that we're a
little wiser than our kids are,
what's good and what's bad for them.
And so we look at this, parents
can set the model of fear in
the Lord so that their kids.
Respect you and fear you.
I think sometimes we miss that as
parents or adults that we want our
kids to respect us, but are we showing
respect to our heavenly father?
Are we fearing him with the same authority
that we would want our kids to fear us?
And I think that's a challenge to me
as I start thinking through that is, is
that my teaching, my kids that I really
care about the Lord's place in my life.
And so Mary.
It's clearly saying here, his
mercy is from generation to
generation on those who fear him.
So if the fear is a key component
in receiving God's mercy, and if
we believe that Mary received God's
mercy, which is what we believe here,
because it says that she was saved.
I want to ask this question, how does
Mary's live show that she feared that.
I know I'm trying to go deep here guys,
but I just want us to think through
how does Mary's life show that she
feared the Lord and received mercy.
She chose to praise him.
That's a good one.
What else?
She shared boldly, right?
She was sharing her story.
What else?
She humbled herself.
That's another great, right.
So she understood his authority.
And so she placed herself under
it through humility, right.
And her faith.
And so to me, I'm, I'm, I'm
constantly, again, I tell you this
a lot is I like this idea behind
like two plus two equals four.
I like when things work out.
And so not everything in our faith is
that easy, but I think whenever God
says to receive his mercy is to fear.
And I'm like, what does
it look like to fear him?
And Mary's given us an
example of faith and humility.
And, um, what we would
say is praise right.
And sharing what God's done for her.
I go, okay.
Then if I want to receive God's mercy,
then what does my life need to look like?
And I think Mary set
that example up for me.
So mercy is extended again
to generation to generation.
If we fear God.
And so God, Mary mentions in
this three different people
who God is merciful towards.
And it's interesting as he begins, she
begins to explain this, uh, in verse
51, it says he has done mighty deed with
his arm and he has scattered the proud
because of the thoughts of their heart.
And so these are the helpless
that he's extended mercy to.
Then we see in verse 52, that he
has toppled the mighty from their
Thrones and exalted the little.
And so we see this as the humble people.
And then we look at verse 53 and he has
satisfied the hungry with good things
and sent away the rich away empty.
And so he extends mercy to the hungry.
So as a society, the question
is, do we tend to celebrate
the helpless and the hungry.
I mean, we have concern for them,
but I don't think we celebrate
them as though they're people that
receive something amazing like mercy.
No, typically we, we celebrate
the strong and the ones who
can take care of themselves.
We sh we celebrate those who are maybe
prideful or boastful in a strong position.
We're richer, powerful, but no, God
says those who recognize their need,
the helpless, the humble, the huh.
Are the ones that will receive mercy.
I don't know if you associated
with any of these groups at all.
Um, but if you do you have
much to get praised for because
you recognize your need.
It's a great reason to give praise.
And I started just thinking through
that briefly mercy to receive
God's mercy is to recognize who
God is, recognize your needs.
So you may not be helpless,
humble, or hungry, but if in
somewhere in there that you are.
Recognize your need.
You do get to receive God's mercy.
And I think of it this way before we
conclude sort of thinking a little bit
more about this is what's our part in
receiving God's mercy or our salvation.
When we think about Mary what's
our part, because you know,
doesn't God do everything right.
We don't work for our salvation.
Everything is given to us by
grace, through grace, in faith.
And so a lot of times, I dunno, I
dunno if you ever think about this.
What must I do.
And in the end we realized that mercy,
grace forgiveness is always there
waiting on us, not to do anything,
but to receive it, to say, I need
it to recognize my humble, helpless,
hungry condition, and a need for God.
See Mary understood.
And this season for her, the first
season of Christ's birth birth, that
she could give God praise for her
salvation, but she could also give praise
for the salvation of her people, but
she could give salvation so that every
generation could come to know Christ.
Oh man.
You know what so cool in this moment.
And these are the things that
like blow my mind in this moment.
Mary Gay pray.
For the salvation that we receive today,
like she gave praise in advance to God.
For what?
When you gave your life to
Christ, when you gave your life
to Christ and that moment Mary
had given praise that long ago.
That's a cool picture.
What are you praising God for
now that maybe somebody two
months, two years, 200 years will.
I'll tell you this, Mary set,
a great example of what the
season of praise can be for us.
And so we see Mary's reason to get
praise during this season of Christ's
birth was for what God did for
her, what God did for the people of
Israel and what God did for everyone.
So what's our reason for giving God
praise during the season of Christmas.
You're not going to be shocked by it.
It's the same thing.
It's the same reason we can give God
praise during the season is exactly
the same reason that Mary gave praise
because of what God has done for us.
He sent Jesus to be
the savior of our life.
He didn't just save us, you
know, always, still be with us.
God, didn't just save us from something.
He saved us for something.
So he chose us to do what, do what Mary
did to give him praise, to tell her story.
To live her life out
through faith in humility.
See, God has done that for us.
And then he's given us
the power to fulfill it.
He says, I'm not going to leave
you there to figure this out.
I'm going to save you and choose you.
And now I'm going to give you wisdom.
How does he give us wisdom through
his word, through each other, right on
how to live in such a way that helps
other people know him in this season.
We can not only praise God
for what he's done for us, but
what he's done all around us.
And so I'll just say.
We can give God praise for what he's done
here and inspiring hope we can get God
praise for what he's done in our city.
We give God praise for the connections
that we've been making in, in our lives.
We can give God praise that,
that he has come to save, not
just us, but those all around us.
Lastly, we can give God praise in
this season because he's extended his
mercy from generation to generation.
If I think about the individually.
And the generations that's
going to come after me guys.
I'm telling you this, I can't wait
for one day to get to heaven and
realize the impact of our faith here
as a church and as individuals, as
impacted generations after us, I
want to be a part of that story.
Can we give praise for
that during the season?
Absolutely.
Mary taught us that
it's not just about us.
It's about his kingdom from
generation to generation.
So as we close today, I just want
you to consider during this time of
reflection, a couple of questions,
and one of those questions during
this time of reflection is this.
And I kind of alluded to at the beginning.
I want you to ask yourself this question.
Have I put other things ahead of
celebrating what Christ has done for me
during the season during Christmas, it
is easy to get so focused on everything.
And then all of a sudden it's
Christmas morning and we tell
the kids, Hey, don't forget.
It's Jesus's birthday.
And then we opened our
gifts and we move on.
And guys just so you
know, I love Christmas.
I love opening gifts.
I love buying gifts for our kids.
I don't like paying the bill, but
I like buying kids' gifts for kids.
Um, I, I love the smells
and the lights I'm for it.
I just really am.
Um, but I'm, I I'm reminded.
That I'm more for Christ
than I am for anything else.
So I want you to just ask
yourself this question.
Have I gotten things out of order?
You know, am I celebrating Christ's birth?
And then everything that I do I
see through the lenses of that.
And if, and if you haven't, it's
not like you're sitting here to
say, oh, I'm such a horrible person.
It's just saying, Hey, I
want to get that right today.
So I would just ask you during this
time of reflection, God, have I
placed things in this season ahead of.
And if, and if you have just ask
God to help you now prioritize him
and make him a part of the season.
Um, just a couple of examples for you
guys, for us as a family, we've grown in
this, um, since we've had kids, um, one of
the first things that we put up as an ad.
Calendar.
Uh, we, we read through this and we,
we open up this and we read the story
and, and we talk about Christ and we
prioritize Christ throughout this.
We, we actually typically make a cake on
Christmas morning and we block candles
and we celebrate Christ's birthday.
We, we talk about it
through the seasons, right?
So we're, we're trying to do
whatever we can to teach our kids
this, whatever we do in this.
It's more than just the gifts you're
going to open up on in the morning
or the great cookies that you love.
It is such a bigger story
of what God's done for us.
So I want you to ask yourself that
question, but the second one is this.
I want you to ask this question.
Have I ever given my life to
Jesus to actually celebrate
the true reason why Jesus came?
Because this season of Christmas
is, is nothing apart from Christ.
And really if we don't have a relationship
with Christ, Can we really celebrate
the true reason why the season is
even here and that again, that's for
you to ask God, is that my next step?
Have I truly given my life to Christ?
And if you have praise God, um,
Lee into the season, thank God for
what he's done, because without
this season we aren't saved.
We don't have a savior.
What we do have a savior to say.
So when this time of reflection,
I want you to do this.
If you have questions about what it means
to give your life to Christ, come see me.
I'm going to hang out in the back of
the hand, in the back for this purpose.
I want you to say, Hey, there's something
that spoke to me in this message that I
have questions about, or this, something
that spoke to me in this message.
That's leading to me to this.
I need to give my life to Christ and
you don't have to have all the answers
because if I had to have all the
answers at the moment of salvation,
I probably still wouldn't be saved
because there's so many things.
And some of it just comes with faith.
And so today, maybe it's you, maybe it's
you needing to give your life to Christ.
And if it is come talk to me, don't
let another day pass before you
don't give your life to Christ.
You're missing this amazing
relationship that Mary teaches us,
that Mary was able to give praise.
And I want you to be able to get
praised in the season more than
just, you know, all the other
things that are part of Christmas.
As you reflect and consider,
ask the Lord what he's teaching.
You, give it to him.
And if you haven't given your
life to Christ, come talk to me.
I'd love to talk with you.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you, Lord.
We're thankful for today.
As we begin the season of praise,
or I think I was reminded by my
wife this morning, Lord, about.
Um, there's, there's more than just
this season to give praise and, um,
Lord, we should get praise every day.
No matter what day it is, Lord, we've
taken time out, um, to dedicate this
time, Lord, to, um, giving praise to
say thank you because we were helpless.
We were hopeless and you didn't leave.
But you sent your son Jesus to
give us hope, Lord, to give us
peace, to give us wisdom and
direction and purpose in our lives.
So Lord, I just pray that Lord
whoever's in this room, Lord,
whatever's on their heart.
Whatever they're going to surrender
to you Lord, during this time,
I pray that you or draw them to
that you give them encouragement.
And, um, Lord that each person will
leave out of here, challenged, uh,
to make you the center of everything
that we do during the season.
But Lord, I also pray if there's
someone in this room that doesn't
know you, Lord, that today, they will
choose to give their lives to you.
That they'll take that step of faith,
even if they don't have all the answers
Lord, and they'll begin to walk in
a relationship with you and get to
experience the season in such a new way.
And so Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.